# Time-Series

This analysis consist of using time series analysis and linear regression modeling techniques learned in class to predict future movements in the value of the Japanese yen versus the U.S. dollar. As we will see throughout this analysis, the quality on the analysis depends on the model used as well the quality of the data. Starting with time series analysis, the yen futures settle price plot shows that the Yen futures settle price fluctuates a lot due probably to some volatility as we can see from the plot, the settle price went from a high in 1996 to a bottom in around 1999-2000. Then, it started an upward trend again to another high around 2012 and from there to another bottom around 2016. It looks like that the Yen is heading to an upward trend again however, it is not that high now.

The summary output of our ARMA model shows high P values, 3 of which are close to 1. Given the high values of P particularly, this ARMA model may be using an unreliable coefficient that might cause misleading results. Both lag 1 and lag 2 have negative impact with with negative coefficients. Also, the ARMA model 5 Day Stock Return Forecast plot shows a downward trend which flatned afterward. The ARIMA model also is showing high p values 5 of which are above the threshold however with the ARIMA model lag 1 and lag 2 have positive impact. Both the ARMA and the ARIMA are showing limitations on their reliability.
Based on my time series analysis, there is an increasing volatility and an upward trend of the Yen vs Dollars Settle price according to the results of the ARIMA and GARCH models. However when we look at the ARMA model the plot is showing a downward possibly flatning trend. There is high risk giving the increasing volatility and possibly high rewards too. 

From the linear regression modeling, based on the results we have our model is peforming better with out of sample testing than with the in-sample testing. It is good that the out of sample root mean square is lower than the in-sample root mean square, even though none of them is really close the zero. However when we compare the predicted values to the actual values, we see that in many instances the model is missing the trend and when it is correctly predicting the trend it is missing its extend, so this model needs to be retooled to make better predictions and be more reliable. 


